{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang6153\deflangfe6153{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Black;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri Light;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri Light;}}
{\colortbl ;\red79\green129\blue189;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}{\*\mmathPr\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\qc\cf1\kerning32\b\f0\fs32 Steem 4.0.2 release notes\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\f1 Atari ST\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 The Atari ST was a legendary 16bit computer of the Eighties.\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs32 Steem Engine, by Anthony & Russell Hayward\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Steem is a legendary Atari ST emulator for the PC, both accurate and easy to use thanks to its great user interface.\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\b\i\f1\fs28 Steem SSE\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\b0\i0\f2\fs22 Steem SSE stands for \i ST Enhanced EMulator Sensei Software Edition\i0 . It is an updated version of Steem. Some say an improvement, some say it's worse!\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\b\i\f1\fs28 Steem 4\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\b0\i0\f2\fs22 Steem 4 is the latest version of Steem SSE.\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\b\i\f1\fs28 Licence\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\b0\i0\f2\fs22 Steem is free open source software. The licence is GPL3 as chosen by Steem authors.\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs32 Installation\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Extract files to a folder of your choice. There's no setup program.\par
\lang2057 When you run a Steem 4 build for the first time, it proposes to add a link to the new version in your start menu if you care about that\f3\lang6153 , unless NoIntro is specified (see manual). \f2\lang2057 You may skip everything if Steem was already installed (but then you need to start a second time).\par
\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs32\lang6153 v4.0.2 Notices\par
\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22\lang2057 So that 32bit and 64bit versions of Steem can cohabit in the same directory, all the plugins can be stored in a \i plugins32\i0  or \i plugins64\i0  folder, it's the first place where Steem will look. After that, it looks in a \i plugins\i0  folder, then, for DLL files, in a folder with the same name as the DLL (pasti, FreeImage...). Finally in Steem's main directory.\par
\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs32\lang6153 v4.0.2 Features\par

\pard\widctlpar\sl276\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\f4\fs24\lang2057 Keyboard Language\par
\b0\f2\fs22 In keyboard options, the last choice in the language list, \i Mapping file\i0 , allows you to select an ini file that contains key mappings. Examples are included for the German and French keyboards. The format is simple, you just need to know the ST keys, that's why a graphic is also included. The point of the feature is to allow you to create your own mapping in case you're not satisfied with Steem's hardcoded mapping.\par
\par
\b\f4\fs24 High Density Disks\par
\b0\f2\fs22 Steem should better handle 1.44MB disk images. It's a hack in as much as regular STs used 720 KB disks (Double Density). The Mega STE could handle high density.\par
\par
\b\f4\fs24 Memory snapshots\b0\f2\fs22\par
Better compatibility with snapshots of old Steem versions, better detection of corrupt snapshots\par
\ul Note\ulnone : memory snapshots of Steem32 and Steem64 are not compatible!\par
\par
\b\f4\fs24 Option fast blitter\par
\b0\f2\fs22 No timing cycles are counted for blitter operation. It's a hack available on the ST video page.\b\f1\fs24\lang6153\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\fs32 v4.0.2 Emulation improvements\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sl276\slmult1\cf0\fs24 Blitter\par
\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22\lang2057 Busy bit reads as set during the pre-start latency (Giana STE real fix)\par
Refactoring using stBlitter.sv by ijor (bugs are mine as usual)\par
Don't grant bus to Blitter during a DMA disk transfer (Antiques MFM)\par
Don't restart the same line on resuming blitting (Lethal Xcess green dragons bug)\par
\kerning32\b\f1\fs24\lang6153 Floppy drive\par
\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22\lang2057 If both connected drives are selected, none will work (Captain Dynamo)\par
\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28\lang6153 R1\par
\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22\lang2057 Fix reading HSCROLL updates the MCU register (Kultur Melk)\par
\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28\lang6153 R2\par
\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22\lang2057 Fix some cases of stalling after loading memory snapshot\par
Remove misc. \i Warnings\i0  option\par
\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28\lang6153 R3\par
\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22\lang2057 Fix some large border glitches\par
Fix some other cases of stalling after loading memory snapshot\par
Revert recent mod in CAPS interface (OutRun CTR)\par
steem.ini-only option TrueFullScreenGui (see manual)\par
\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28\lang6153 R4\par
\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22\lang2057 14MB RAM hack\par
Extended monitor hack\par
Random corruption possible on load snapshot\par
Fullscreen in some display modes (DD)\par
\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28\lang6153 R5\par
\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22\lang2057 Fix crash on take screenshot (R4 bug)\par
\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28\lang6153 R6\par
\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22\lang2057 Fix little GUI glitches\par
Improved resuming of memory snapshots involving an IPF/CTR disk image\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28\lang6153 R7\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Compatibility with Windows XP restored\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R8\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Fix old bug when mixing MFM and STX or CAPS disk images\par
(Re)fix interference between interrupts and GEMDOS HD emulation\par
Remove confusing default A, W, S, Z joystick keys\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R9\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Fix ACSI + STX mixing\par
Fix HD GEMDOS Atari Works (R8 bug)\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R10\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 64bit build not compatible with Windows XP for better performance\par
Fix regression mono digital sound (Talk talk 2 steps, argh!)\par
Fix Microwire mixer write 0 (Pacemaker)\par
Fix potential bugs in ghost disk\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R11\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Steem can start on any screen\par
Fix timeout bug in MFM emulation\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R12\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Glitches on loading a config and other minor fixes\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R13\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Auto insert disk B broken (R12 bug)\par
Fix file association (this one is older)\par
FPS: don't display if zero\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R14\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Fix stretched display modes (R13 bug)\par
Monochrome rasters only for palette 0 (Starglider 2)\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R15\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Fix Steem can start on any screen (R13 bug)\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R16\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Some floppy drive fixes\par
Added some protection patches\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R17\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Fix Disk manager \i Get contents \i0 for archives handled by ArchiveAccess (such as 7z)\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R18\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Restore Windows XP compatibility of Steem 64\par
Disk manager little glitches\par
Bug using unrar multifiles\par
WD1772 clear CRC on good ID\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R19\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Fix \i Use Pasti for all floppies and ACSI\i0  option (R9 bug)\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R20\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 MFM emulation write to disk (R9 bug)\par
Fix display rendering method on startup with no borders and other little glitches\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R21\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Fix PRG or TOS file not reloaded on startup\par
Fix loading AUTOMATION PACKER V2.3r PRG files\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R22\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Mapping files for US keyboard on UK TOS and UK keyboard on US TOS\par
Some \i Status\i0  info page fixes\par
Fix wrong doc files (v4.1.0) in package\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s2\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs28 R23\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 Reset LINEWID (thx Vincent Rivi\'e8re)\par
Fix .TOS file support on STE\par
64bit: real clippling for OSD texts\par
Some debugger fixes\par
\par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs32 Demo\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22 A little demo is included as an example of ST disk image (STEEM402.ST), it should convince you of the ST's amazing possibilities. \par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s1\sb240\sa60\sl252\slmult1\cf1\kerning32\b\f1\fs32 Steem SSE Web site\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1 {\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://sourceforge.net/projects/steemsse/ }}{\fldrslt{http://sourceforge.net/projects/steemsse/\ul0\cf0}}}}\cf0\kerning0\b0\f2\fs22\par
There you will find a blog, a forum, all available versions of Steem SSE and the source code (subversion repository). Activity is variable.\par
\par
\par
}
 